the police negotiator is the person with the entirely unenviable job of going into ground zero and attempting to talk a dangerous criminal out of doing whatever he or she intends to do .  lives are often at stake , and the criminal is usually armed and most likely mentally unstable , prone to turn on the negotiator at a moment's notice .  the negotiator must therefore be something of an actor , psychologist , and sham artist , in addition to being a police officer ; he must be able to think on his feet and either work toward the goal of ending the confrontation without violence , or failing that , must be prepared to facilitate the conclusion of the crisis through firepower .  most of all , the negotiator must be able to enter a situation with as little intelligence about the scenario as possible , and quickly gain control of the situation , dominate the conversation , and influence the perpetrator into thinking that the end of the conflict is what he really wants .  it takes a pretty smart person to do that .  but what if the hostage-holding criminal is just as smart ?  what if he's also able to think on his feet ?  in fact , what if he also knows all the tricks to turning the situation to his favor ?  it is this circumstance which forms the basis for f . gary gray's the negotiator .  in this film , police negotiator danny roman ( samuel l . jackson ) is tipped off by his partner to corruption within the chicago police force .  when his partner turns up shot to death and internal affairs finds incriminating evidence in roman's home , roman becomes the prime suspect of both embezzling from the police disability fund and murder .  faced with the scorn of most of the police department , and under close scrutiny by the media , roman is forced to turn in his badge in one of those typical scenes in the captain's office .  i don't quite remember if the captain actually said , " i hate to do this , but . . . " ,  although it wouldn't surprise me if he did .  luckily , the film soon shakes off the conventionalism and concentrates on the interesting premise mentioned above .  after being offered a take-it-or-leave-it deal by the district attorney , roman resolves to prove his innocence by walking into the office of internal affairs inspector niebaum ( j . t .  walsh ) , taking him and others hostage , and proclaiming he has been framed .  although roman's actions seem forced due to the compressed nature of his motivational build-up , gray redeems himself by involving us with the negotiations between roman and fellow police negotiator chris sabian ( kevin spacey ) which soon ensue .  jackson , while a superb actor , is miscast in the role of roman .  the actor has become so popular , and so often identified as a protagonist ( notable exceptions can be found , such as in jackie brown ) , that we as an audience have a difficult time believing he will carry out his threats .  the script also clearly sets him up as the good guy who is only trying to prove his innocence .  how can we believe he's going to shoot a hostage , no matter if the hostage tried to kill him earlier ?  unfortunately , this preconception saps the film of some of it's would-be suspenseful moments , and anything good left in those scenes is largely attributed to jackson's acting ability .  almost every time he's in a scene , jackson steals it without looking back .  when spacey appears , the film has already run about a third of its course .  his is an interesting character .  made out to be some kind of negotiating superman , our first look at him has him hopelessly trying to get his family moving to set out on vacation .   " i can talk a man out of blowing up the sears tower , but i can't talk my wife out of the bedroom or my daughter off the phone , " he says .  when he gets the call to action , however , he quickly changes gears and becomes the man we expect him to be .  soon , his character has to negotiate not only with roman , but also with the swat commander ( david morse ) who is itching to send in a team to take roman out , all the while keeping wary of the fbi agents who are waiting to take over the operation , should negotiations fail .  this complex set of pressures are reflected well in sabian the negotiator and spacey the actor .  as the second protagonist , spacey measures up nicely .  gray really lucked out with this cast .  david morse as commander beck , ron rifkin as commander frost , and john spencer as police chief al travis are all more than competent , and can hold their own in scenes with jackson and spacey .  the only problem is the bit of typecasting that results from these choices : morse played a similar role in the rock , rifkin played the d . a .  in l . a . confidential , and spencer played a police detective in cop land .  with the level of acting , however , this can be forgiven .  also in the supporting cast , paul giamatti as rudy , one of the hostages , is notable for the comic relief he provides .  his character is initially so slimy , and giamatti himself just looks so shifty , that you expect to laugh before he even says anything .  fortunately , this doesn't distract from the seriousness of the rest of the film , but instead provides some nice breathers from the level of tension which gray manages to sustain throughout .  j . t . walsh , as the suspicious internal affairs inspector , clocks in with one of his final performances .  sadly , the talented but underrated actor passed away in late february of this year , and the soon to be released pleasantville will mark his last film .  walsh appeared in dozens of movies such as good morning vietnam , backdraft , and nixon .  for one of his best performances , check out sling blade , in which he plays a mental patient sharing a ward with billy bob thornton .  when jack nicholson accepted his best actor oscar in march , walsh was one of the men to whom he credited his success ( the actors performed together in a few good men ) .  the negotiator is actually dedicated to walsh , and while inspector niebaum may not have been his best role , it certainly characterizes the type of character for which walsh had become most famous for playing .  in the end , the negotiator has a plotline that parallels it's reality .  we're served with the premise that two equally deft negotiators are battling each other to resolve the conflict in the manner which will suit each of them best .  as an audience , we're also given a situation where two wonderfully talented actors are thrown into a movie , and we'd like to see if one will dominate the film .  both provide some pretty good entertainment .	POS
as any sociologist will attest , your childhood and the types of parents that you have will heavily influence your happiness as an adult .  parents that are supportive and environments that are nurturing will yield children who will embrace the values and norms that can allow them to live healthy and productive lives .  but if your upbringing is marred with violence , hate and dysfunctionality , then your journey towards a happy adulthood will be saddled with psychological obstacles almost too great to overcome .  `affliction' explores how a man never truly escapes the grip of an unforgivingly nightmarish childhood .  the man in question is wade whitehouse ( nick nolte ) .  here is a man who is like any other citizen on the surface .  he is a productive member of the community and goes about his daily routine much like you and me .  but as you scratch beneath the surface , something scary and evil begins to rear its ugly head .  we see that he is a mean-tempered person .  he has a hard time taking control of his emotions , which usually gets the better of him .  he is quick to apologize for his actions and wants to be a gentle person , but something is sparking a tendency towards violence .  he also has tremendous problems with relationships .  he is divorced and his only connection to love is his daughter .  but his bearish persona and stature alienates her .  he is visibly shaken by her rejection even though she says that she loves him .  his demeanor also puts his relationship with a local townsgirl ( sissy spacek ) at risk .  she tries to remain true to him and supportive , but for women unlucky enough to attach themselves to this kind of person , relationships will ultimately end like sentences ending with an exclamation point .  finally , he is spiteful and vindictive .  as a rejected father , he initiates a custody battle that seems hopeless .  as the town's only police officer , he issues a speeding ticket to a man whose father has just died .  we can see that this is a man that is both afflicted and living with pain .  he is a prisoner and a slave to it .  he is moving towards a level of madness and insanity that defies comprehension .  what kind of force can move a man to the edge of his emotions and beyond the reach of people who genuinely care for him ?  we learn that the answer is his father ( james coburn ) .  this is the kind of father that every son would be ashamed to have and that any woman would be afraid to meet .  he is an overbearingly misogynistic and frequent drunk who rules with an iron fist .  we see his tyrannical behavior through flashbacks .  to heighten the father's churlishness , the flashbacks are shown as home video footage taken by a very frightened person .  very effective .  today , wade's dad is quite elderly , but still manages to instill fear into a grown man .  the influence that the father possesses is inescapable , and its unsavory effect clamps down hard on the tortured wade .  the result is every son's nightmare ? becoming like the father that one has always dreaded to be .  this is a terrifically presented piece of psychological drama , and nolte turns in a strong performance as a man whose pain seems to become a detriment as well as a necessity .  he's a hulking person who is still reduced to whimpers when in the presence of his father .  coburn displays heft as the bitter dad .  but , it's most certainly not saturday-night-friendly fare .  there's nothing light or fluffy about this film .  that may turn many moviegoers away .  but it's certainly worth noting that this is a well-acted drama showcasing nolte's and coburn's raw acting talents .	POS
titanic is so close to being the perfect movie it's upsetting that it isn't .  the film , which cost $200 million+ to make and could of put 20th century fox into a lot of finicial trouble if it 'sunk' ( pun intended ) is a labour of love for cameron , who wrote and directed the film .  we all know that big budget dosen't mean great film ( see waterworld ( 1995 ) ) but titanic is far superior to kevin costners waterlogged epic .  but sadly , titanic just misses the mark of masterpiece ( although it is one of cameron's best films )  the film starts with present day explorers searching the runied titanic .  they find a safe , and inside a picture of a woman .  the woman in the picture ( an old winslet ) tells the explorers that the picture is of her .  the explorers invite her over , and she then tells her story of titanic .  in the flashback , dicaprio plays poor boy jack dawson , who , after winning a poker game , wins two tickets to board the grand ship titanic , leaving liverpool to go to america .  also boarding the ship is rich woman rose dewitt bukater ( winslet ) who is being forced into a marriage with a man she dosen't love at all , cal hockley ( zane ) so her family can remain rich .  she nearly commits suicide on the ship , but jack comes to the rescue , saves rose , they fall in love , and cal gets jealous and eventually tries to kill them .  oh yeah , and the ship sinks .  and that is the main problem with the film , and which stops it from being a work of genius .  the story and script ( both by cameron ) are both weak .  the story is full of cliched characters , ( the creepy man who the nice girl has to marry , the poor boy with heart , the stuck-up mother ) and poor dialogue ( the script consists of lots of in-jokes of how the boat won't sink , and most of the dialogue is pretty basic ) it's a shame really , as the audience does have to sit through 3 hours of this film .  without good dialogue , a film could become a very long , very boring film ( like camerons own terminator 2 , 1992 ) but , luckily , there are some redeeming features that make the story and dialogue problems just disappear .  firstly , there's cameron's direction .  there are some great sweeping shots of the titanic , and some clever fades between the flashback titanic and the ruined titanic .  but the scenes cameron directs especially well are the disaster scenes at the end .  there is a lot of mayhem and panic , all done very well by cameron .  it's a scary sight , watching bodies fall from great heights into the watery depths below .  thanks to cameron's direction , then , the audiences attention is held for the full 3 hours 15 minutes .  to support the directing are the excellent cast , working very well with their underwritten characters .  dicaprio is good , although he only looks 16-17 years old .  his performance of a over excitiable , yet also well mannered boy is excellent , and he also has some funny lines .  winslet is great also , and her transistion from a well mannered rich girl to a rebelous young adult is pretty smooth .  zane is deliciously evil as cal , saying every line with a sneer and a flicker of the eye lash .  the audience really does come to hate him .  he may be playing the same character he plays in every film he's in ( like dead calm , 1988 ) but he does it really , really well .  also worthy of note is kathy bates ( edward scissorhands , 1990 ) as a loud mouthed american .  finally , the icing on the 'great things' cake are the special effects .  cameron is a whiz with effects ( just watch aliens ( 1988 ) , terminator 2 and true lies , 1994 ) and they are used very well throughout .  the sweeps of the ships are awesome , although digital domain , who did the effects , cannot animate human movement too well .  the humans seem to move to 'smoothly' , there's just something odd about them .  you can tell that they have been animated on a computer .  of course , the ship sinking scenes are awesome , with bodies flying all over the place , and the scene where the ship splits in half has to be seen to be believed .  titanic is one of the only films where effects have reinforced the film .  titanic , then , is a wonder of directing , acting and cgi , but not writing and story .  again , like most of camerons films , the editing is loose ( cameron edits himself ) , and the film could of come in under three hours with a few more cuts .  titanic , then , although not the godfather of movies it could of been , is a wonderful attempt at creating a work of genius .  enjoyable , scary , and even sad , titanic is a film cinema was invented for , filling the screen with incredible images , and assaulting the ears with awesome sound .  a superb film , but sadly not perfect .  overall rating= ( 	POS
directed by : pixote hunt , hendel butoy , eric goldberg , james algar , francis glebas , gaetan & paul brizzi conducted by : james levine composed by : ludwig van beethoven , ottorino respighi , george gershwin , dmitri shostakovich , camille saint-saens , paul dukas , sir edward elgar , igor stravinsky rated : g scripture references : 1 samuel 16 : 23 , ephesians 5 : 19 , 1 chronicles 15 : 15-16  in 1940 , walt disney released a filmed experiment .  fantasia was a blend of two art forms : classical music and animation .  while it was not immediately popular with the audiences of its day , it has since become recognized as something of a classic .  according to the program notes , it was mr . disney's intention to have fantasia be a continual work in progress .  sixty years later , thanks to the ongoing efforts of walt's nephew , a new fantasia is being released .  it was not only worth the waiting , it is evidence to just how far animation has come during the past half-decade .  with seven new sequences and one old favorite , fantasia 2000 exhibits an imagination and respect for its art form that is absent from most other feature films .  like the original , fantasia 2000 will more than likely bore the very young , although there is more narrative appeal in this newer version and the segments appear to be substantially shorter , perhaps a nod to the shorter attention span of the studio's primary audience .  ranging from the silly to the sublime , each segment is preceded by a short , humorous introduction or interstitial by a guest celebrity host , steve martin ( bowfinger ) being the first and most effective .  these are quickly forgotten as conductor james levine leads the chicago symphony orchestra through the musical program which , along with the images drawn by the disney team of animators , is thoughtfully and beautifully brought to a stunning synthesis .  fantasia 2000 is being released exclusively in the giant-screened imax theaters , making for a unique viewing experience .  there is enough variety in the program to provide something enjoyable for everyone and surely , people will exit the theaters with their own personal favorites .  for me , that would have to be the jazz age story of four unconnected and discontented people living in nyc who , unknowingly , help each other realize their dreams .  drawn in the style of caricaturist al hirschfeld and inspired by george gershwin's rhapsody in blue , the music and images are blended perfectly resulting in a product greater than the sum of its two parts .  children will like the short piece set to carnival of the animals by camille saint-saens .  here , a goofy looking flamingo irritates the rest of the flock with his yo-yo playing antics .  they will also giggle as donald duck , playing noah's assistant , tries to load the animals into the ark to the familiar strains of pomp and circumstance by sir edward elgar .   ( while the depiction is not biblically accurate , it is entertaining and might be excuse enough to familiarize ourselves with the true record by reading what is written in genesis 7 . )  a positive note is that the studio has avoided any segment which is as perversely dark as nihgt on bald mountain upon which the original film ended .  there are some images based upon fantasy such as the flying whales in respighi's pines of rome or images which have their roots in mythology such as the ethereal creatures which tell the story of nature's cycle of life , death , and rebirth in igor stravinsky's firebird suite .  but the stories they tell are uplifting , containing nothing too frightening for our younger children .  the darkest segment , spiritually speaking , actually belongs to the only holdover from the original fantasia , mickey mouse in the sorcerer's apprentice by paul dukas .  but overall , the emotions evoked from fantasia 2000 are positive ones , being full of hope and promise .  music has an impact which can be undeniably felt , capable of leading the listener to emotional peaks and inspirational highs simply not attainable through other mediums .  it is no wonder that the levites , as the priestly tribe of the old testament , were also the appointed musicians .  if fantasia 2000 is able to introduce a new audience to music which inspires and exalts , it will have done an incredible service . 	POS
catherine deane ( jennifer lopez ) is a psychologist who has been hired to participate in a project where she can enter the minds of comatose victims and try to interact with their subconscious in an attempt to wake them up .  she has been experiencing moderate success with a young boy in a coma , but the boy's parents aren't happy with the apparent lack of progress and the toll of her job is having adverse affects on her regular life .  as if trying to assure the boy's parents wasn't hard enough on her , a new development arises that furthers the strain on deane's mental faculties .  a vicious serial killer named carl stargher ( vincent d'onofrio ) has been kidnapping women , locking them in an automated cell that drowns them slowly in a matter of days , then soaking the corpses in bleach to turn them into life-sized dolls .  just after kidnapping his latest victim and locking her in the cell , stargher has a traumatic experience that triggers a schizophrenic virus in his brain and causes him to sink in an eternal catatonia .  the police , led by fbi agent peter novak ( vince vaughn ) are able to locate stargher by some clues he left while dumping his previous victim's body , but they feel all hope is lost for his current victim due to his vegetative state .  in a last ditch attempt , they ask deane and the scientists that created the project to undergo the frightening task of entering stargher's mind to try and find the location of the victim locked in the deadly cell . . .  a cell which will completely fill with water in the next 40 hours !  initial reports about this film described it as a cross between the silence of the lambs and the matrix .  while it does share some characteristics with both films ( particularly the first forty minutes , which seem almost like a condensed version of lambs ) , the cell also seems to contain elements of dreamscape and brainstorm .  the buzz around this project is that first-time feature film director tarsem singh ( who won many awards for his video of r . e . m . 's " losing my religion " ) wanted a script that he could fashion images out of instead of a cohesive story , and a good portion of this film supports that theory .  despite the borrowed elements from the aforementioned films and a script that contains several logically questionable moments , the cell does feature some remarkable imagery .  all of the sequences where we delve into someone's mind are incredibly beautiful ( including the dank mind of stargher , whose thoughts are reminiscent of an h . r . giger painting come to life mixed with a tool music video ) , proving that singh is as adept at filming strange and wonderful images as his acclaim would lead us to believe .  the first sequence that takes place in stargher's mind is by far the best , featuring one of the most ingenious traps i've ever seen in a film ( involving a horse , which no one seeing this film will probably forget ) , a zoo-like display of stargher's victims which are animated like marionettes , and stargher himself in a giant purple cape that spans the walls of his mental throne room .  if the film had continued within this dirty monstrous world i would have deemed the film brilliant , but alas , the sequences only become more silly as they go along ( despite a painful nipple ring removal later in the film ) .  the cast is basically just an excuse for there to be some moderate plot semblance during the parade of images , but at least vincent d'onofrio turns in his usual bizarre and psychotic performance ( magnified by ten , thanks to the environment in which the film has been placed ) .  in my opinion , d'onofrio was one of the best creepy actors i have ever seen in a film , but his film choices as of late have been so completely awful ( i . e . -  the newton boys , feeling minnesota , the thirteenth floor , and the velocity of gary ) that i have begun to rethink my initial assessment of him .  the character of stargher is an excellent role for him though , and will probably lead to a bit of typecasting for him .  detractors of violence and disturbing images will want to stay far away from this film , as it contains heavy doses of both .  besides the nipple ring removal i mention above , there is also stargher's penchant for hanging suspended off of the floor by the rings that pierce his back and legs ( prior to his catatonia and capture ) which will have audiences recoiling .  a sequence where catherine enters stargher's mind and finds him recreating the disemboweling of his first victim is also pretty disquieting .  one moment also features a character having his intestines slowly removed from his body by an old fashioned hand cranked spit-like device .  as a narrative film , the cell is sorely lacking .  as a collection of images though , the cell is extremely well done .  although the latter sequences in the film contain fewer disturbing imagery than the first half , singh has done what he supposedly set out to do : make a film solely for the purpose of stringing some remarkable images together .  unfortunately , a well-written script should have been considered too , because without it the cell just seems like any other music video we could see on mtv ( provided , of course , that mtv allowed for the use of graphic violence and language in music videos ) . 	POS
ever wonder what happened to gabe kaplan ?  you remember , he was the title character in that 70's sitcom , " welcome back kotter . "  always trying to help out the sweathogs , frequently trying to dodge mr . woodman , ever wary of his wife's tuna casserole .   " so , " you ask , " where is he now ? "  mr . kaplan actually spends much of his time these days playing professional high-stakes poker .  that's right .  i'm not sure if it's his main source of income , but from what i've heard , the guy occasionally comes away with $20 , 000 at a time .  and there you were , thinking i was going to tell you he was doing off-broadway theater .  you silly goose .  well , gabe kaplan isn't in the movie rounders , nor is the film about the actor come gambler's life .  but rounders is about poker , and gabe plays poker , and i thought that was kind of a neat connection .  sorry about the segue , or lack thereof .  matt damon plays mike mcdermott , a law student who also has a singular talent for the game of poker .  he's been playing for a while , and more than being proficient , he has caught the bug .  he goes to all the underground games in new york city , knows the regulars , and knows how to win .  in the beginning of the film , he's built up a nice thirty grand nest egg , which he takes to the speakeasy-type gaming parlor where the big boys play .  mike is there to make his bid into the upper echelon by staking it all against teddy kgb ( john malkovich ) , an oreo-munching cardshark with ties to the russian mafia .  mike has the potential to take a large pot and go to vegas and buy into the world series of poker , but instead he loses it all in a single hand .  months later , he's paying his way through law school by driving a delivery truck .  when mike's best friend and poker buddy worm ( edward norton ) finishes his jail term for hustling some students , he wants to pick up right were they left off , working as a team to part others with their betting cash .  although mike has stopped playing cards as a promise to his girlfriend and fellow law student , jo ( gretchen mol ) , worm connives mike into playing once more , and mike , bitten again by the bug , slides down that slippery slope , risking his relationship , education , and reputation as playing poker again becomes the focus of his life .  to make a film about gambling , a filmmaker will usually have to play up the glamorous side to get the audience behind the characters .  this is because few moviegoers will care a whole lot about some guy in a leisure suit or terry cloth shirt sitting at a folding card table with a stogie in his mouth .  rounders , however , seems to go more for the latter than the former .  the card clubs mike and worm frequent aren't very glamorous at all .  there's a basement , a lodge with elk heads on the wall , a goulash joint - these are the kinds of locales in which director john dahl sets his shots .  except for one brief instance when the two players visit atlantic city , the film is bereft of the flashing lights of the casinos or the pleasant color of the green felt table .  the reason rounders still captures our attention is because it is less about the game of poker than it is about the personalities which enjoy and are slaves to it .  we're given a nice set of interesting characters with clear motivations , and good actors to play them .  matt damon is very natural as mike , who struggles between his desire to play the straight and narrow by finishing law school , and answering what may be his true calling , playing professional poker .  ed norton's worm is truly a worm , always looking for the angle and playing everyone for what they're worth .  john turturro , who amazes me with his acting range , tones it down in this film by playing joey knish , a virtual poker prodigy in his time who now plays the underground games to make rent and child support payments .  he's both a friend and mentor to mike , and turturro's low-key performance is totally convincing , just as john malkovich's heavily-accented teddy kgb is imposing as an adversarial dragon mike must slay to prove himself .  martin landau is also thrown into the mix as one of mike's law professors , abe petrovsky .  while landau slips well into the role , his character , spitting out personal anecdotes about staying true to one's self , facilitates the channeling of the storyline toward a predictable ending .  perhaps the weak link in the otherwise formidable line-up of acting talent , however , is gretchen mol who just didn't seem to have much presence on screen .  she's a genuine peach to look at , kind of a cross between actress renee zellweger and singer jewel ( and i wouldn't be surprised if the three of them formed some kind of blond-haired triumvirate and attempted to take over the world ) , but her delivered lines seemed very flat , and i found myself looking for matt damon's reactions instead .  a good thing about rounders is that it doesn't get bogged down in the character development and statement making so much that it can't find time for humor .  the film is peppered nicely with scenes that both make you laugh and keep the pacing going , such as a sequence where mike and worm move rapidly around new york from one game to the next , in widely different locales .  one game in a cigar club had me in stitches .   " i love the sweetness of this dark maduro wrapper , " says one of the players , clearly more interested in displaying his pretentiousness over the cigar in one hand than in the cards in his other .  i was hoping mike and worm would really take these guys .  with all the poker being played , rounders had the potential to be very confusing .  you might think you know a lot about poker , but think again .  luckily , we're given a narration by damon during the more intricate moments to explain what's going on .  the narrations are more informative than intrusive , and apprise us of what the stakes are and why certain players want to do the things they do .  it's nice that as the characters develop , so does our comprehension of their world .  as a film about success and survival in the realm of underground poker , rounders delivers in spades .  wait !  as a film about the culture of cards , rounders is an ace .  hang on !  packed with great acting and great characters , rounders is a full house .  okay , i guess that's enough .  oh , by the way , if you ever want to get into a game with ol' gabe kaplan , be sure to bring a note from epstein's mother . 	POS
in 1987 the stock market crashed , and oliver stone's wall street was released to critical acclaim and packed movie houses .  wall street lucked out in its timing ; the recent crash gave the film a resonation it might not of had , and though its kill-or-be-killed approach to business was exaggerated , that very ideology was keyed into the mind set of the quintessential reagan-era businessman .  stone constructed his film as a mythical good vs . evil tale relayed in the fast-paced milieu of the burgeoning stock exchange .  critics and audiences lauded wall street , elevating its status to that of a contemporary classic .  i'm proud to say that i will never be counted as one of them .  i found wall street to be just as axiomatic and pandering as the majority of stone's output with its thin caricatures , obvious sentiments , and a charisma barren performance by the young charlie sheen .  stone goes for broke in every scene ( the same could be said for nearly all of his works ) .  this approach tends to bury his purported message beneath a heap of good intentions .  he directs stock exchange scenes in typical hyperbolic mode with people shouting into phones as if they were in a plummeting airplane .  it's all an excuse for stone to ratchet up the emotion with false intensity , rather than explore what these situations are really like .  i have a feeling the brokers would be psychologically manipulative ( as they are presented in boiler room ) rather than laughably over the top .  these guys are salesmen after all , not televised judges .  more than anything i am baffled by why so many adore wall street .  the only possible solution i can muster is its release date .  and not just the timeliness of the " greed is good " subject matter : the film was plumped down in the eighties , a decade in which the one-joke comedy rose to an art form , and a group of glamorous brat packers smirked their way through inane high concept , low result movies .  in my mind , the eighties will forever be remembered as a decade with not only a proliferation of bad movies , but bad music , bad hair , and bad clothes .  maybe stone's after school special set in wall street was viewed as a welcome change of pace .  boiler room is an equally well-timed film with some similarities to stone's piece of crap .  they both feature a consequential father-son relationship , though boiler room's is much more subtle and touching .  and they are both concerned with the power of greed , yet the men in boiler room are akin to poseurs presuming to be big shots rather than the slippery-smooth , heartless gordon gecko figures of wall street .  boiler room is a message movie as well , though ( at least until the end ) doesn't shove it in our faces .  boiler room is about the pursuit of cash and the degrees to which people will go for that cash .  as i said , this film is indeed timely in a society where who wants to be a millionaire is the number one prime time show every day ( bringing about a revolution of prime time tv watching that hasn't been seen in quite a while ) ; not only do we want to be millionaires , we want to watch other people become millionaires !  in our super-judgmental , power-oriented culture the desire for money supersedes everything ; when you have money , you have it " all " .  and seth ( giovanni ribisi ) wants it " all " the easy way .  he's a well-intentioned college drop out who gets lured into working for an illegally run brokerage firm ( the kind that sells junk stock ) whereupon he meets others just like him .  ben affleck is cast as jim , the company headhunter , who struts in commanding the room like a frat boy gordon gecko .  his job is to influence trainee's into becoming enthusiastic employees by giving a speech that subtly attacks their man hood .  it's ironic that he sells these pups the same load of b . s that they're told to dish out to prospective buyers .  affleck's character is obviously supposed to recall alec baldwin's similar character in glengary glen ross , and that proves detrimental to the actor's performance .  affleck shouts , curses and be-littles his rookie employees just like baldwin , minus the edge .  when alec played the scene he became the part , spewing those brutal lines as if they were his own .  by comparison affleck simply looks as if he were doing a really hammy line reading .  the brokers approach their job with the fervor of overzealous jocks : they storm to work like football players on the way to the big game .  rap music thumps on the soundtrack effectively illustrating who these guys think they are : intellectual gangsters .  they aren't above a rumble as a test of man hood especially during leisure time where the lumbering scott caan seems all too eager to use his fists in minor disputes .  we drink up this world along with seth , and watch him become seduced by it , just like we might be .  as in all cautionary tales , boiler room begins with seducing us into its illustrious world of profit and wrongdoing , then smacks us with the consequences of all the recklessness .  i know this story .  we all do .  but it can work if it's told with intelligence and energy , and that is how writer \ director ben younger tells it .  as a director of ( please excuse my french ) mise-en-scene younger has much to learn .  his style is sitcom bland .  but his writing isn't .  younger's script is well studied in the vernacular of this bunch ; his dialogue is like a junior david mamet .  despite the moderate camera work younger fills his phone-pitch scenes with tension that comes from just the performances and the tightly wound script .  the brokers \ hucksters counter every customer objection , gently bullying them into buying stock .  these moments are filmed like psychological action scenes : a tense confrontation between a victimizer and a victim who isn't aware that he is one .  with the exception of affleck's brief appearances , the performances are truly exceptional .  ribisi , who has the edgy looks of a character actor , is extremely potent here , working his pale angular face , and eerie , plaintive stare for all their worth .  he conveys child-like vulnerability ( his character seems to hide in a corner whenever things aren't going his way ) in some scenes , and in others he's ferociously cut throat .  the jekyll and hyde contradiction works well in the movie : ribisi is confident when it's just him and the phone , but cowardly in front of authority figures including his abrasive father ( authoritatively played by ron rifkin ) .  boiler room thankfully avoids wall street-like histrionics in the sales-pitch sequences ; the sales build slowly like a crescendo of intelligent psychological ploys .  those ploys are taught to seth by chris ( vin diesel ) , a kind broker who alternates between seth's friend and his mentor .  diesl shines in his minor role .  this week i saw the sci-fi opus pitch black in which diesel plays a completely different role in an equally effective manner .  in that film he has the kind of role that might have gone to arnold schwarzenegger in the 80's , and in boiler room he has the kind of role that might have gone to elliot gould in the 70's .  nicky katt is also memorable as a superior broker obsessed with what he can't have .  nia long , as the firm's secretary , ( a lone black women amongst many white men ) is ribisi's love interest in a part that at first looks to be as insignificant as most of the parts this talented actress gets , but develops into something more interesting .  the two make an oddly likeable couple .  long is smart and brash , and ribisi is charmingly aloof .  at one point he says to her " i'm just lookin' for some chocolate love " .  it's a terrible line but ribisi delivers it in such an innocuous child-like way , it becomes sweetly endearing .  unfortunately , towards the end , the boiler room turns a tad schmaltzy .  there is much crying , hugging , and sorrowful stares .  this is okay when taken in small doses , but younger's conclusion is constructed as a series of these boo-hoo moments , one following the other .  a particular misstep is his attempt to show the effect that seth's manipulations have on one of his poor victims .  it's not a bad idea but the execution is lacking , with those scenes feeling tacked on to further spell out the message .  that message being , " greed is bad " .  yes it's patently obvious , but boiler room conveys it by introducing us to a culture that i haven't seen much of in the movies : the disenfranchised twenty something entrepreneur .  and all wall street did was introduce us to a simplistic fantasy world of saints and sinners .  boiler room offers neither extreme .  it gives us what is in between , and for that i am thankful . 	POS
dark city is such a rare treat : it ? s a stunning , hyperkinetic vision of a place where our reality is fused with noir , science fiction and the darkest nights in manhattan and london .  to boot , it is accompanied by an intense , well written and thoughtful story .  movies of this caliber and idea aren ? t made too often , and it ? s unfortunate that i waited this long to see it .  alex proyas , who ? s previous film the crow looked good but couldn ? t cover up the terrible acting or story , here shows a near masterpiece ; a combination of metropolis , edward hopper and phillip marlowe , fused seemlessly .  at times it moves beyond film into artwork .  it is the story of ? strangers ? , aliens from another planet ( and we know they ? re aliens because they shave their heads and wear overcoats ? one of the detractions of the film ) who experiment on humans to discover what makes them live , what makes up our ? soul ? .  these aliens are superior to humans because they have mastered the ? ultimate technology ? of shaping matter with their mind , called ? tuning .  they are aided by a human scientist , played by kiefer sutherland , who has ? betrayed his kind ? and at the start of the film watches as the entire city stops at exactly midnight .  during this time , john murdoch , played swiftly by rufus sewell , wakes in a bathtub in a room with a swinging overhead light ( a terrific visual effect - not only is murdoch confused , but so is the audience ) .  without a memory and a strange guilt that he may be a killer , he receives a phone call to flee , as the strangers are after him .  i don ? t want to proceed to much further with the explanation of the story ; one of the pleasures of the film is watching it develop , in a way regaining murdoch ? s ? identity ? along with him .  it ? s a pleasure to watch the characters develop through the cinematography .  murdoch ? s wife , anna , is introduced through a stunning beam of light : she is a lounge singer who sings into a bright spotlight .  shadows , outlines of men in hats watch , as she gently curves through the shine .  we see the outline of her body from behind , an hourglass , as she sings a slow , rhythmic song .  a great entrance .  however , a film such as this is only successful if the morals and themes behind it are strong enough to leave the viewer satisfied .  the city is nice to look at , but if it ? s a poor story then it ? s not worth watching .  blade runner was popular not only because it ? s visuals , but it ? s story and themes were thought out and provoked strong response from the audience .  it is discussed it and argued , therefore a success .  other science fiction films of recent times , such as the fifth element , are nice to look at , but are dropped and forgotten because the cookie cutter moral behind them is so flimsy .  we ? re left with ? love conquers all ? after finishing the fifth element .  dark city is not so easily explained away .  as the strangers discovered , locating the human soul and discovering what makes us survive is not such an easy task .  where is reality ?  dark city is certainly the best science fiction film of the 90 ? s , and ranks along with the best made in the 80s , such as blade runner and the two aliens films .  perhaps it ? s the best of the both decades ; it had the darkness of the aliens films , as well as the visuals and compelling story of blade runner , but moved beyond , i think , because the themes behind it were much stronger .  anyone who wants to make an argument for better science fiction films please feel free to write , i ? d love to hear it . 	POS
all those who were offended by there's something about mary should not tread in the waters of american pie , a gratuitously sexual rollercoaster ride of raunch .  and while this uproariously funny , gross-out summer movie is basically an exercise in bad taste , it also demonstrates a surprising sweetness in the end .  american pie is the latest entry to the offensive teenage-targeted fare this season .  i must question the studio that releases a movie like this .  the producers are aiming these films at the 15-24 crowd , but while pushing the limit of possible sex and violence in an r-rated film .  some have even been narrowly avoiding the dreaded nc-17 , a rating the mpaa gives when the adult content surpasses even that of a restricted movie .  american pie was threatened with an nc-17 , but after snipping a few scenes from the finished product , it was given an r . but at least this new addition is not as careless and unforgiving as something like south park .  it is sick , perverse , and ultimately disgusting - not to mention extremely funny .  american pie is about four desperate teenagers who make a pact to lose their virginity by prom night .  jim ( jason biggs ) , kevin ( thomas ian nicholas ) , oz ( chris klein ) and finch ( eddie kaye thomas ) are a quartet of high school students in their senior year who think sex is something they must experience to be successful in their lives ahead .  jim inquires what it feels like when you reach third base , to which one of his friends replies : `like warm apple pie . . . ' .  of course , this prompts the scene unfairly exposed in the trailers , in which jim and a freshly baked pie have a very intimate moment in the kitchen corner .  there are many moments , such as this , in which director paul weitz uses a game-plan similar to the one frequently displayed in mary : to cause the audience to break down laughing in disgusting disbelief .  american pie is a hard-fought effort that has replenishing rewards if you manage to stick with it .  i loved the young cast in this movie .  consider the subject matter that these actors have dealt with , obviously suggestiveness never rivaled in any of their previous projects , and you should appreciate their performances .  biggs is more than enjoyable , and chris klein ( who recently played a similar jock in election ) is obviously a young talent on the rise .  but in a teen-dominated movie , the best performance comes from comedian eugene levy ( of television's sctv ) , who is unexpectedly brilliant as jim's uneasy father .  scenes in which the familiar father-son conversations are brought to interesting new levels are the funniest moments to be found in american pie .  after levy discovers jim's new use for apple pie , he tells him , `i did a fare share of that sort of thing when i was your age .  but i never used baked goods . '  it is performances such as his , and bill murray's in rushmore , that are often unfairly dismissed when awards are handed out .  there are some less-than-original aspects of the film .  a bathroom incident involving finch and a bottle of ex-lax is something we've seen before .  if weitz is planning to take after the farrelly brothers , then this is a decidedly unwise move : the same prank was pulled in the brother's dumb and dumber , and used to greater effect .  secondly , the characters are forced into a half-hearted climax that seems more artificial than amusing .  but at one point , in which we discover that american pie does have a heart of it's own , biggs asks his buddies why he's going through so much pressure for something that's `not very important anyway . '  and so we realize that while the film is expressive about a subject that is hardly appropriate , it still manages to be mature .  in it's own way . 	POS
i rented this movie with very high hopes .  this movie got praise as one of the best films of 1998 , and unfortunately , was not as good as i hoped , but was still very intriguing and thought provoking .  first of all , the casting for this film is great .  tobey maguire and reese witherspoon are the future of hollywood .  they play their roles as the parker brother and sister perfectly .  with a plot as unbelievable as this film , you need chemistry and honest acting from your cast .  tobey and reese ( bud and mary sue parker ) play their roles perfectly and display their characters with honesty and believability .  william h . macy , an actor i have grown to love over the past year , turns in another great performance as the tv dad who is torn over his wife , a " colored " person and his friends , the " non-colored " ones .  he also displays believability and must display a certain lack of chemistry with his wife .  he does this perfectly and yet again shows why he should be one of the top actors in hollywood .  joan allen is equally great as betty parker , the ideal tv mom .  her character is the most ambitious .  she is very na ? ve , and must display this well to make her character believable and she does just that .  her lack of chemistry with macy , which the role calls for , and her developed chemistry with jeff daniels is terrific , and if daniels would have been as stellar as the rest of the cast , then this film would even been even better .  as said before , jeff daniels gives a bad performance .  his character displays the change going on throughout the town , yet he does not display it with enough conviction .  his character is very confusing and he is not very believable .  this film could have been elevated to a whole new level had daniels been able to give a better performance .  the movie is very provocative .  it challenges the issues of racism that existed in the past and that still exist today .  i really was not expecting all of the elements they brought up , but they pulled them off with such flair that it was mind blowing .  they demonstrate the racism issue without a hitch , but do it in a slow pace .  the only major flaw in the film besides the performance by daniels is length .  some films are not meant to be that long .  pleasantville is one of those films .  this film could have been so much better had they not moved so slowly to it .  first , they are amazed by the implementation of color .  then they want to have it .  then they do not want to .  then the war ensues between the colored and non-colored .  this is all strung out over two hours , which was way too long .  some movies need a lot of time .  saving private ryan was a little bit under three hours long and i thought it could have used more time .  this film is only two hours long , and seems much longer .  length is everything in films .  if you can nail down the perfect timing and pace , you can win half the battle .  pleasantville can move at a good pace at times , but it is not consistent enough .  overall , pleasantville is a very pleasant and provocative departure from the predictability of most films these days .  i went in expecting a light-hearted film about change .  i left learning an important lesson about racism and the way things change .  luckily , pleasantville teaches this lesson in such a way to make it appeal to all audiences .  only if it could have done in a shorter amount of time . 	POS
a movie like mortal kombat : annihilation works ( and must be reviewed on ) multiple levels .  first , there's the rampant usage of randian subtext that pervades the entire movie .  but occasionaly , almost as if making an ironic , self-depreciating remark , the movie tosses in clearly marxist imagery .  no no . . .  just kidding .  had you going there for a moment , didn't i ?  in all seriousness however , and to be fair to the movie , it * is * necessary to provide two viewpoints : that of a movie watcher unfamiliar ( or only marginally familiar ) with the whole mortal kombat phenomenon , and that of a fan of the first movie and/or a fan of the games .  the first movie ( mortal kombat ( 1995 ) ) concerned itself with a martial arts tournament that would decide the fate of earth ( and it's 5 billion inhabitants ) .  the mortals won , and in theory this should have prevented the emperor shao khan from taking over the earth .  unfortunately , shao khan was a poor loser , and the very final scene in mortal kombat showed him arriving anyway , ready to take over the planet , as our heroes assumed a fighting stance .  the first movie was extraordinarily entertaining for those ( like myself ) who are fans of the game .  i'd even go so far as to say that many folks who didn't know about the game probably enjoyed the movie .  the writers and directors knew the limitations of both their cast and of the basic story itself , and they didn't try to overachieve .  there were a lot of really cool fight scenes ( with really cool accompanying music ) , intersperesed with some distracting ( but ultimately non-intrusive ) bits of fluff passing itself off as a plot .  and , as we know , the movie was a smashing success at the box office .  mortal kombat : annihilation picks up precisely where that movie left off , with some introductory exposition to clue in those who may not have seen the first movie .  shao khan has decided that he's going to take over the earth * anyways * , and to hell with some silly rule about mortals winning the tournament .  thereafter follows approximately 85 minutes of film that alternates between being confused , being trite , being silly , and being just plain stupid .  one gets the general impression that the producers of the movie thought " hey , that last movie was such a success that we can get more money and make a * real * movie now . "  too bad they didn't simply stick with the formula from the first movie .  i could write volumes about the things that are wrong with this picture , but here are the high points :   * the acting is truly bad .  sandra hess ( playing the sonya blade character ) is particularly execrable , especially in scenes where she tries to convince us that she loved johnny cage ( a character from the first movie who gets greased at the beginning of this movie ) .   * in one of the worst pieces of mis-casting i think i've * ever * seen , james remar plays raiden , the god of thunder .  in the first movie , christopher lambert played raiden and played his character as though he was in on the joke : a french actor playing a japanese thunder god being revered by chinese mystics .  i generally like it when actors are cast against type ( tim " tiny " lister , jr . being cast as the president of the u . s . in the fifth element , for example ) , and remar has always been one of my favorite " utility " actors but he's so totally wrong for this part that he doesn't even have the luxury of amused self-awareness .   * there are too many characters that are introduced as being potentially important , but then never seen again .   * there are a number of completely meaningless story sidetracks , including a muddled scene where liu kang ( robin shou ) seeks out nightwolf ( litefoot ) , has a mystical hallucination , and then wanders off with jade ( irina pantaeva ) .  for these reasons ( and many others ) , i can only give the movie a 2 . . .   . . . unless you're a huge fan of the games and/or the first movie .  in that case , the following critiques also apply :   * sandra hess , while being an even worse actress than bridgette wilson ( who played sonya blade in the first movie ) , is much more convincing as a fighter .  wilson looked like she was simply mimicing some movements taught to her by the fight choreographer .  hess looks like she actually knows some martial arts , and puts together a much more believable fight scene .   * in the fights , each of the characters does at least * one * thing they do in the game ( and often more ) .  sonya does her " kiss of death , " jax does his " earthquake , " liu kang does his " animality , " and so on .  a big bonus for those of us who were looking for similar moves in the first movie and found them only rarely .   * there aren't as many fight scenes in this movie as there were in the first , because the folks making the movie mistakenly try to hang a more robust plot in between .  silly , silly folks .  and the lamest fight involved two of the women in what turns into a mud-wrestling match .  lame and so obviously sexist even i ( politically incorrect , for the most part ) noticed and remarked upon it .   * the special effects are generally better , except for the final fight scene between the emporer and liu kang in which both perform their " animalities . "  motaro and sheeva are both more convincing and lifelike than goro was in the first movie .  for folks like myself who loved the first movie and enjoy the games , i give this a 5 .  you'll probably like it , but not nearly as much as you liked the first one . 	NEG
a remake of the 1978 warren beatty vehicle " heaven can wait " ( which in turn was a remake of " here comes mr . jordan " ) , " down to earth " tells the tale of lance barton ( chris rock , " lethal weapon iv " ) , a young black standup comic trying to win over the audience at harlem's apollo theater .  when he's taken to heaven prematurely by bumbling angel keyes ( eugene levy , " best in show " ) , his only recourse is to return in another body .  he chooses that of charles wellington , the tenth richest man in the united states .  of course , wellington is not only rich , but white and 53 years old , which makes lance's bid for closing night at the apollo , as well as his desire to woo suntee ( regina taylor , " jerry maguire " ) , a tad tricky .  the original elaine may/warren beatty script has been reworked by chris rock , lance crouther , ali leroi , and louis c . k .  to turn beatty's vehicle as a football player into rock's vehicle as a comic and add some racial humor .  as directed by chris weitz and paul weitz ( codirectors of " american pie " and costars of " chuck & buck " ) , the whole affair comes off as amateur hour .  initial scenes play like filmed line reading rehearsals .  production values are shoddy .  most serious of all is the use of rock when his wellington counterpart would have been more appropriate .  this problem is clearly attributable to the fact that the old white guy is never lip or action synched when he is on screen .  rock does get the chance to do some fun schtick , such as his turnaround on wellington's plans for a poor neighborhood hospital ( 'bullet in the head ?  you got a bed ! ' ) , but he's uneven when interacting with the rest of the cast .  regina taylor fares well amidst the mediocrity as the young activist who confusedly ends up falling for the man she believed to be her nemesis .  also good is frankie faison ( " hannibal " ) as whitney , lance's compassionate manager - the only human who's made privy to lance's body body switch .  chaz palminteri and levy are pretty much wasted as heaven's ambassadors .  another " best in show " alumnus , jennifer coolidge , is poorly used as wellington's cheating wife ( and shown several days apart wearing the same outfit ? ! ) and greg germann ( tv's " ally mcbeal , " " sweet november " ) continues display his sitcom roots as her lover and husband's lawyer .  mark addy ( " the full monty " ) is sorely underutilized as cisco , wellington's fake english butler .  stealing the show in every scene she's in is wanda sykes ( " the chris rock show " ) as wellington's disgruntled maid .   " down to earth " is for chris rock fans only .  all others should go rent " heaven can wait " or truly be brought down to earth .	NEG
last summer , a feature-length version of the avengers hit theaters to the tune of a unanimous critical panning .  based on the famous 60's television show , the film was an enormous box-office flop and a huge disappointment for warner bros . a year later , the studio is up to their old tricks again , with the unnecessary revival of the robert conrad program the wild , wild west .  but it sounded promising : the same tag-team of star will smith and director barry sonnenfeld , who both contributed to make men in black such a financial success , is at the reins again .  and co-star kevin kline is attached to the project , as well as a substantial budget to spice up the special effects .  i mean , what could possibly go wrong ?  the answer is just about everything .  wild wild west is a cinematic abomination - a film that was so entirely pointless to begin with that it is never given a proper chance to get out of the gate .  there are a lot of fancy special effects , and a handful of distinguished actors who try desperately to tunnel through the inane plot and make a lasting impression .  but the script is so deliriously uneven , the entire movie so off course , that no human being or technical achievement has a chance to salvage it .  at square one , we have a bizarre case of casting .  will smith plays james west , a renegade cowboy who was originally played by white actor robert conrad in the tv series .  my guess regarding the casting of african-american smith is a simple one : the actor + a cozy summertime release = big bucks for all those involved .  smith is a very talented performer who usually brings swift assurance to any comic relief material , but this is not an ideal role for him .  he's too much of a joker .  i heard that initial casting included george clooney in the lead role , and frankly , that sounds a lot more plausible .  what makes matters worse is that smith goes through the role with such self-assurance in his eyes ; you can practically sense his contentment with the fact that he knows wild wild west will be a huge hit at the summer box office .  the plot involves west and cross-dressing government agent artemus gordon ( kevin kline ) , who are assigned by the president to recover a group of kidnapped scientists .  the trail leads to the diabolical dr . arliss loveless ( kenneth branagh ) , a man with no lower body who speaks in a dry , witty southern accent .  loveless has taken the country's top technical minds hostage so that they can assist in his deranged plan of total government control , using lethal superweapons to destroy entire towns .  one such weapon is an 80-foot mechanical tarantula , bearing eight spindly legs of thrashing metal and spewing enormous fireballs left and right .  the visual effects that bring this metallic bug to life are spectacular , seamlessly blending computer-generated imagery with the western surroundings .  unfortunately , all of these effects seem so detached from the story , and can do little to support the film's plot deficiencies , which are undoubtedly the main problem .  wild wild west is a running gag that never truly works .  most of the jokes , usually care of smith , die on arrival .  if it's one thing that could possibly be the saving grace , it's the performances , and even they are mostly off-kilter and poorly delivered .  kline is admirable , but he has little to do but invent silly devices on the spot .  salma hayek is wasted as the romantic interest , because she is viewed as little more than that - window dressing to look pretty and create conflict between west and gordon .  branagh , an esteemed shakespearean actor and director , adds marginal enjoyment to the film .  but even he is so utterly weird and over-the-top .  rarely is a film so lost in itself as wild wild west is .  i suppose there's always one turkey of the summer season ; a highly anticipated , big-budget release that manages to completely disappoint .  wild wild west is such a movie , and will probably go down as one of the biggest disappointments of 1999 .  but it is highly unlikely that this will go down in defeat at the box office .  perhaps after this , audiences will be less assured when they see will smith's name stamped on a summer movie .  after such hits as independence day and mib , wild wild west is not an impressive addition to the resume . 	NEG
in the past , tim burton has taken cinema by storm with the action packed batman , and the hilarious ed wood , but lately his films just don't cut it .  sleepy hollow has some unique features , but the script is a terrible mess .  for those who remember disney's fantastic " adventures of ichabod crane " , it is actually superior to this .  disney's version was at least interesting , while burton's film drags on far too long , without any suspense or frights .  while the stories are similar , the new version adds too much to the once likable story , and throws in some weak dialogue to top it off .  ichabod crane ( johnny depp ) is now apparently a constable , who was sent to new york to investigate suspicious murders .  the victims are headless , and no traces of evidence were found , until the murderer reveals himself , hence the headless horseman .  now with the help of christina ricci and an orphaned boy , they must stop the headless horseman from a killing spree , that could destroy the whole town of sleepy hollow .  sure the headless horseman is an intriguing character , but the story has so many holes that even he nor depp can save this disaster .  in the original , the headless horseman was meant to be unstoppable .  no one could stop him , not even ichabod .  by the end of the film , it had audiences in deep thought .  burton however concentrates far too much on the atmosphere , and how to make the main characters heroes .  he takes no risk what so ever , and this is where he fails .  another pathetic element of the film was the script .  like i said earlier , he just stuffed too much in at one time , and made it look real sloppy , kind of like the mess the headless horseman made with his victims .  he completely butchered the story to pieces .  thankfully there are a few factors that i particularly liked .  the acting by depp was quite notable .  he took the nerdy character of the cartoon , and simply acted it out in a better manner .  if it wasn't for his quirky one-liners , i doubt i could have remained awake , because quite frankly i was getting sleepy .  just when i thought christina ricci was getting to be a good actress , she winds up doing this .  it just goes to show no actress or actor can pass up a big blockbuster .  it's too tempting to let go , even if the script is mush .  the atmosphere too was quite involving .  i should have just gazed at the sets , and the eerie fog , rather than actually pay attention to what was going on .  at least burton's films are eye candy , even if they are trash .  the only real scenes of value were the tree full of heads , and the fight between the horseman , depp and casper van dien .  other than that , i wish i could just fast forward through all the gaping holes in the film , and just sit back and stare at the scenery .  by the end , i can only think back and laugh at how bad sleepy hollow developed .  this is the biggest disappointment of the year , especially when such a talented director like burton handles a project like this .  don't waste your time or money , because your head will feel hollow . 	NEG
capsule : a ham-handed and over/underwritten morality play masquerading as entertainment , so muddled it doesn't even know what it's really advocating , if anything .  a time to kill has been hailed as the best of the grisham adaptations , and it's easy to see why : it presents a strong , almost rancorously so , story ; it is full of good actors ( samuel l . jackson , matthew mcconaughey , sandra bullock , kevin spacey , charles dutton ) ; and it's ostensibly about some important social issue that we're all tangling with .  it is not , however , a good movie , and all of the reasons i've listed above have something to do with why .  right from the beginning , the movie is dead-set on stacking its deck as thoroughly and unrepentantly as possible .  a pair of redneck whites , boozed and drugged out of their minds , kidnap a young black girl , abuse and rape her horribly , and leave her for dead .  after their arrest , their father ( jackson ) takes an assault rifle and guns them down on the way to trial .  mcconaughey is then drafted in as his lawyer , and the rest is somehow strangely predictable courtoom movie dramatics .  the acting is not quite what it should be , given the cast we have .  sandra bullock ( who is a good actress but not a serious one ) looks clueless ; spacey's accent switches itself on and off at random ( and he's given a totally thankless role to play as well , a role without an iota of depth ) ; and mcconaughey's role is stamped from the cardboard back of a cereal box .  the most memorable role is donald sutherland's , and his is a bit part .  i always consider it an index of a movie's desperation when it is able to present shocking and outlandish events , and somehow not have them generate an ounce of impact .  there is one scene -- a riot outside the courtroom -- that should have created incredible tension , but winds up playing out like a textbook exercise on how not to deploy a scene like this .  because the movie doesn't know what it's really about , it * can't * generate any genuine tension , and so it has to artifically inject tension through clumsy plotting .  one of the ways it does this is by throwing in a whole subplot about a bunch of vicious kkk cross-burners -- which is tidied up so neatly that it borders on the nihilistic .  i was reminded of the despicable betrayed , which tried to tart up a fundamentally empty story by injecting vile , graphic acts of racism as little more than an attention-getter .  the movie immolates an enormous amount of its potential by making a few critical mistakes .  first of all , the jackson character is not hard to judge ; there's no tension in his dilemma .  he's self-admittedly guilty and should be sent to jail , no matter how moral his crusade .  the old saw about how no court in the land would convict him , if he was white , is supposed to be the underlying theme of the movie , but it's never developed into an organic component of the story .  it just sort of floats around on top while the movie grinds away furiously with its plot mechanics .  another mistake is in motivational logic : by not having the two white thugs arraigned first -- or maybe tried and then dismissed from lack of evidence , say -- we have that much less empathy for jackson's character .  i'm probably supposed to think that just because he had his daughter raped , we are * automatically * supposed to feel empathy for him , but that's precisely the kind of facile thinking that makes real justice impossible .   ( see the virgin spring for more on that note . )  is jackson's character then simply insane ?  that prospect isn't given terribly serious treatment either .  one of the most aggravating things about coutroom movies is how little they seem to know about how the law works , or how lawyers get their information .  mcconaughey's character makes an important slipup late in the movie , when one of his witnesses turns out to have been convicted of a capital offense .  how did the prosecution get this information ?  how come he didn't get it ?  the whole way these questions get handled are symptomatic of the movie's way of dealing with complex legal and moral questions in cheap screenwriterly slam-bang fashion .  this is the biggest problem : the movie isn't about jackson's character , or his dilemma , or this case , or any of its ( frequently interesting despite the porcine writing and direction ) characters .  it's not ultimately about anything at all , except its stupid geared-down plot , which inches onwards in one unremarkable scene after another towards a totally contrived ending .  at two and a half hours , the movie is overlong and drastically overwritten : there's endless stuff about things which ultimately add up to nothing , and no writing about the material that should really matter .  it's all handwaving .  the closing argument are also sneaky and underhanded , and underscored my suspicion that the movie is manipulative and unfair .  it's not easy to make a movie about something .  the other day i saw kurosawa's phenomenal rashomon , a movie that is really about the way people deal with truth and reality ( or don't ) .  a time to kill is as empty and ponderous a movie as i've seen in a long time . 	NEG
here's a rarity : a children's film that attempts to tackle a weighty subject , is there a god ?  done well , it could have been a gem among the wasteland of modern children's cinema .  unfortunately , it isn't .  with jumbled messages , and an unclear audience , wide awake was better left asleep .  fifth grader joshua beal ( joseph cross ) is in the middle of a moral crisis .  his beloved grandfather ( robert loggia ) has died , and joshua has begun a quest .  he wants to find god , to discover why bad things happen .  this religious quest is slightly disturbing for his parents ( dana delany and denis leary ) , but they do their best to cope with their son as he explores different religious faiths .  at his catholic school , his favorite teacher , sister terry ( rosie o'donnell ) , tries to give him guidance , but this is a journey he must make on his own .  meanwhile , he is having the most momentous year of his life .  he has several adventures with his daredevil best friend dave ( timothy reifsnyder ) , he gets his first crush , and begins to wake up to the world around him while he is on his spiritual journey .  it is somewhat confusing as to what the real audience for wide awake is expected to be .  on its surface , it appears to be a kid's film .  however , it deals with serious issues , and is likely to be boring for today's instant-gratification kids .  and while it might seem heartening to see that someone is trying to produce something thoughtful for the kidvid audience , wide awake asks serious questions , but only delivers a cheap gimmick for an answer .  if there were a bit more meat in the story , adults on a nostalgic bent might get a kick out of the movie .  the actors who might have created a great cast ( o'donnell , leary and delany ) are wasted in roles that amount to little more than cameos .  the nostalgic elements ( best friend , favorite teacher , first crush , etc . ) have been done much better in other movies , and actually seem more like filler here .  the film's strongest scenes are some touching flashbacks depicting joshua's relationship with his grandfather .  they show more depth than is present anywhere else in the movie .  maybe the film would have been better if , instead of playing the relationship through flashbacks , it were set entirely during joshua's last year with his grandpa .  it certainly would have been more entertaining .  wide awake can best be described as a failed experiment .  it starts out with noble aspirations , but never delivers on its promise .  parents who do take their children to see this one ought to be prepared to answer some tough questions . . . that is if their kids aren't bored to death first . 	NEG
i wont even pretend that i have seen the other 3 alien films .  i saw glimpses of alien and aliens and fragments of alien 3 , but i have by no means actually sat down and watched any of them .  so take my opinion from an unbiased and impartial perspective : alien resurrection is not worth the large bag of lollies i was munching into after a hard days work .  i didnt just dislike it so much because the plot was awful ; most of the acting was very average or the special effects got tiresome after 5 minutes of painful viewing but also the fact that every tedious ingredient thrown in attempts to give this pointless dribble some meaning .  sigourney weaver , whos role in alien earned her an academy award nomination , plays the character of ripley , who died fighting against extraterrestrial scum in alien 3 . 200 years later , scientists use a sample of blood found at the site of her death to recreate ripley - including the alien that was stuck inside her .  in no time they remove the alien from her body and separate the two ; yet ripley is now not completely human , possessing strange amounts of strength and being able to withhold greater pain than a normal being .  im sure someone can explain exactly why this is so , but for now well just ignore it and move on .  why , you ask , would ripley and the alien inside her be recreated ?  well , the smart little lab researchers believed that they would be able to discover many advancements in science from studying the alien creature .  these were the same people who said they could control the alien and that their was no danger in their research .  they ( yawn ) were wrong .  it doesnt take a genius to figure out that the rest of the film is a continuous cat and mouse chase between the humans who die off one by one and the aliens who open their mouths on every possible occasion to show off their frightfully scary un-flossed teeth .  theres a little saying that goes something like this : if youre going to make a bad film , do it well . i have seen plenty of disappointing and underachieving movies , but they are not the ones that really bother me .  alien resurrection , a good example of a film that really gets up my nose , is not so much a discouraging experience but an off putting one .  there is no way to describe why the australian ma rating was given to this film other than unnecessary and repulsive gore , which attempts to distract us from the wandering-but-not-going-anywhere plot .  in one scene my stomach churned as i witnessed a mawkish looking alien put its hand on a characters head and literally ripped most of his face off .  another one featured ripley sticking a knife through her hand just to impress someone she was talking to .  fair enough if it were in a horror film or even if it bared any significance to the story , but this is unfortunately not the case , and this sort of bizarre gore is inexcusable .  if you think im struggling to find one good aspect about the film , then you thought right .  one exciting scene is a credit ( and the only part remotely worth seeing ) to the film , in which an alien chases two men ( one a cripple ) up a tall ladder with interesting results .  but of course after that thrilling scene alien resurrection had no problem in returning to its pathetically low standard , and ends up crashing into the shores of movie dullness more often than japanese kamikaze jet fighters fall off their skis .  so in a film where the one liners come as bad as earth man , what a shit hole and the primary means for one mans strategic attack is to bounce bullets off walls to hit an opponent , its no wonder why alien : resurrection turned out to be as off putting and clumsy as it is .  oh , and in case youre wondering about my bag of lollies the less i enjoy a film , the more i eat .  so all the lollies were gone in 15 minutes ; but however empty the bag turned out to be , it was still a long way ahead of the movie 	NEG
are you like me ?  do you get annoyed seeing people talk on their cellulars in public places , shouting out loud , not giving a ratt's ass about anyone around them , and basically just wallowing in their own self-importance ?  well if you are , than you will most likely agree with my rating of this film since it basically features a trio of annoying ladies bickering away on the phone for an hour and a half . . . only to make up and hug in the end .  aaaaaaaahhhh . . .  plot : three grown-up sisters living their own separate lives , begin to re-establish their communication lines when their dear old dad falls ill .  critique : this would be a good movie if it wasn't for the fact that it's got very little to say , features uncaring people sharing annoying phone conversations , is chockfull of bad acting moments and provides less emotional satisfaction than any third-rate after-school special .  and i'm being nice !  how junk like this gets made is beyond me , but happy am i that the ephron sisters will finally be dealt a professional blow , considering the regurgitation level of their material had just about reached its limit .  the only true emotional moment demonstrated between meg ryan's character and her dad in this film is when he hugs her and swings her around at a christmas tree lot .  wow . . . how  deep .  of course , the same christmas tune that's played in every ephron flick chimes out in the background , while characters continue to build " bonds " among one another by making reference to old , quaint movies or movie stars .  stop me . . . i'm  gonna cry again !  this film is a mess .  the characters are boring and irritating to watch , the plot has something to do with three selfish sisters talking on the phone a whole lot , kind of liking their father ( but not really ) and then finally realizing the error of their ways , while sharing an " emotional " moment about movie stars from the 50s .  admittedly , i was not expecting much from a film whose television trailer features meg ryan screaming every two seconds and a big dog rolling its eyes , but even i was surprised at the level of ineptitude when it came to some of the acting efforts put forth in this film .  meg did fine as the sister who cries a lot , looking as adorable as ever , but someone please put lisa kudrow inside a permanent home of limited range , cause this woman basically is that very same character that she plays in every single movie/tv show that she's in .  enough already !  and diane keaton must've spent more time thinking about her role behind the camera in this one , cause her acting was amateurish at best .  neither one convinced in " emotional " scenes .  granted , they gave walter matthau the best lines in the film and that's probably where my rating of three points comes from .  all in all , this movie is not funny ( unless you're one to chuckle at train wrecks ) , provides zero drama ( unless you consider loud phone conversations moving ) , generates absolutely no emotion ( although i did tear up when meg hugged a coffee machine ) and ends on a perfectly pretentious note ( " oh no , please don't get any flour on my donna karan dress ! ) .  ugh .  i suggest that all ladies take their husbands/boyfriends to see this movie if they are pissed off at them about something !  that'll teach 'em to mess with you !  oh and incidentally , mrs . joblo also likened this movie to a piece of cow dung flailing in the wind , so there !  then again . . . maybe  you'll like it .   : ) 	NEG
it used to be that not just anyone could become a vampire .  usually , you had to be an aristocrat - a count such as dracula or karnstein .  to qualify , you'd have to have a modicum of sophistication , so you'd at least look cool - or suave - when biting into some young damsel's throat .  but today , in our overly politically correct world , any scuzzy-looking , long-haired , unshaven lout or any spiked-haired harridans can put the bite on you .  by the same token , to be a vampire hunter , one had to have some sort of medical training and knowledge of the occult or maybe perhaps be some sort of professional soldier , or at least one who retired with honors .  not in these times .  all you need are some sharp weapons , some bullets forged from silver and any yahoo can be a buffy - or a blade .  without sounding elitist , the fear of vampires has greatly diminished because of this lack of exclusivity .  which brings us to blade , the latest in a long line of vampire movies in which , it seems , half the population is putting the bite on the other half .  not only are there thousands of vampires , but they seem to move from city to city , pay off police departments and , most importantly , establish their own exclusive after-hours raves in which the highlight is the sprinkler system going off and dousing all the occupants in a blood shower .  with all that blood , you wonder why they have to hunt for victims .  you also wonder when they get the time to get their clothes dry-cleaned and why no cleaner ever complains about all the bloodstains .  blade , which is based on a marvel comic book character , is , like a comic book , all visual .  the plot is basically blade repetitiously slashing his way through the vampire army seeking their leader , deacon frost .  it's all hokum and nonsense , of course .  but the filmmakers play it straight .  unfortunately , at least at the advance screening i attended , the audience didn't see it that way and laughed through much of the proceedings .  you know a movie is in trouble when the scenes of blood and gore that should elicit screams of fright instead evoke peels of laughter .  another tell-tale sign is when the audience seems to be admiring the hero's costume more than the hero .  also it seems it's not enough for today's vampire merely to have fangs .  he must also be proficient in the martial arts .  why a supernatural being , one of the undead , needs such skills is beyond me .   ( of course , this concept dates to the 1974 hammer films-run run shaw production of legend of the seven golden vampires , in which dracula is defeated by seven karate-chopping siblings . )  wesley snipes is buff as blade .  he growls his lines -the few he has - and spends most of the time glowering - as if he was suffering from indigestion or having second thoughts about starring in and co-producing this turkey .  blade is just another example of how the vampire film , a once honorable member of the horror family , has gone downhill .  this dud mostly makes you yearn for those quaint old days when christopher lee could be stopped just by dangling a crucifix in his face .  today's vampires lack the panache , the style of a bela lugosi or a christopher lee .  they are not even worthy enough to carry those great bloodsuckers' capes .  they are more farcical than frightful .  this whole enterprise is one dull blade that could have used lots of sharpening . 	NEG
while watching loser , it occurred to me that amy heckerling's true genius as a film-maker is casting .  in fast times at ridgemont high , she gave us sean penn's jeff spicoli ; in look who's talking , she turned bruce willis into a wise-cracking baby and provided john travolta with is first career revival ; in clueless , she found a star vehicle for the adorableness that is ( or was ) alicia silverstone .  she seems to understand instinctively how to find performers the audience will like in spite of their flaws .  unfortunately , she may also be starting to understand that she understands .  giving appealing actors an appealing script creates likeable movies .  giving appealing actors a script in which their appeal _is_ the movie makes for unexpectedly awful films like loser .  naturally , heckerling makes her protagonist an all-around swell guy .  paul tannek ( jason biggs ) is a small-town boy who gets a scholarship to nyu , then instantly finds himself an island of compassion and diligence in the cold-hearted big city .  paul is the kind of guy who gives up his seat on the subway to an elderly woman ; his roommates adam ( zak orth ) , chris ( tom sadoski ) and noah ( jimmi simpson ) are the kind of guys who blast their music and let their waterbeds leak all over paul .  paul is also the kind of guy who adores girls from afar , in this case the lovely dora diamond ( mena suvari ) .  dora has problems of her own , including a shortage of funds to pay her tuition and a relationship with a professor , edward alcott ( greg kinnear ) , that's more than slightly one-sided .  they're two conscientious kids who love animals and homeless people , so clearly they belong together , even if paul is a loser .  i must confess that , for a while , i was suckered in by heckerling's casting .  jason biggs is an engaging performer whose unconventional looks make him even easier to embrace ; suvari is a coquette with an undercurrent of intelligence .  they're pleasant enough to watch , and heckerling gives us plenty of scenes establishing how nice they are and how nice their respective antagonists aren't .  then it gradually becomes clear that there's virtually nothing to loser but scenes of that sort .  in theory , loser is a romantic comedy , but there is scarcely a laugh to be found in the entire film ( notable exception : a cameo by a scene-stealing comic actor as a video store clerk ) .  instead of taking any time to make the characters' situations funny , heckerling spends 98 minutes making her characters' situations pathetic .  she shows none of the ear for quirky dialogue that sparked clueless , nor any of that film's interest in lively plotting ( not surprisingly , since clueless's plot came via jane austen's emma ) .  she simply turns the film into a pity party .  since loser is a film composed almost entirely of establishing character , you might think that those characters would be interesting , or at least slightly complicated .  instead , you have people either so perfect or so unredeemable that there's no reason to watch them .  paul isn't just a nice guy , he's flawless ; consequently , he's a central character who does absolutely no growing .  his roommates aren't just inconsiderate , they're actively evil-blackmailing professor alcott , drugging women with rohypnol and generally giving humanity a bad name .  and professor alcott isn't just manipulative , he turns dora into his house slave .  dora's unthinking devotion to alcott is the only whiff of basic human frailty to be found in loser , and even that isn't explored in sufficient detail .  there's more ambiguity in the 30-second snippet from alan cumming's broadway performance as the emcee in cabaret then there is in the rest of loser it's one thing to turn supporting characters into comic exaggerations ; it's another to flatten your leads into easily digestible mush .  and it would help if those comic exaggerations were somehow . . .  i don't know . . .  comic .  still , i spent much of the film holding out the ridiculous hope that heckerling would somehow salvage loser from its tedium and justify my desire to like paul and dora .  that hope dissolved the moment heckerling underscored a sequence of paul in the throes of unrequited love to simon and garfunkel's " scarborough fair/canticle . "  instead of giving the sequence a knowing wink-a reference to the graduate , a hint that paul is becoming an overly-sensitive clich-heckerling plays it deadly straight .  even in the scenes that scream for a light comic touch and a bit of a poke at her protagonist's foibles , she finds it impossible to stray from the gospel of paul as saint .  clueless's cher had her self-absorption and manipulative tendencies to balance her cuteness .  in loser , amy heckerling shows a leaden hand with material that demands friskiness ( her one show of wit involves naming paul's dorm " hunt's hall " after erstwhile bowery boy huntz hall ) .  her gift with casting proved to be her curse .  loser may be a crashing bore , but gee , aren't those two kids swell ? 	NEG